Now, just as you can add inputs
to your custom actions, you can also add outputs
to your custom actions.
And to add an output,
you add the outputs key on the same level
as you added inputs, then nested below it,
any output with any identifier of your choice.
For example, used dash cache.
And then nested below that,
a description for this output.
Cache was used, for example,
or whether the cache was used.
So that's how you define an output.
To now assign a value to it,
you have to add the value key just as we did it
earlier in the course when we added an output
to one of our jobs.
Now, the value here should refer to our steps
and therefore here I'm using a dynamic expression,
and then the steps context.
And now we must refer to one of our steps
with help of the IDs assigned to the steps.
For example, here I could add an ID
to the install dependencies step
called install, and use that same ID
up here, so that ID which I defined down there.
And then in that install dependencies step
I could run multiple commands where
one of the commands installs the dependencies,
but the other command uses the
set dash output command we learned about
earlier in the course.
To set an output with the name,
let's say cache, this name is up to you though,
and set it equal to a value of
between single quotes.
And now here I want to use another dynamic expression
and actually use my input here which I called caching.
So here I can then use inputs.caching.
Of course therefore, the output is
kind of redundant because in the end,
I set it to the same value as this input was set.
But I just wanna show you how you can
use outputs in general.
We'll see a more useful example for an output
a little bit later when we build other kinds of actions.
So here I am setting the cache output of this step
to the value of the caching input.
And therefore, now here when we set
the value for the overall action output,
we reach out to this install step,
now there to the cache output by using .outputs.cache,
and that will make sure that the value
provided here, which is of course
the input value in this case,
will be provided for this used cache output.
And this output of this action could now be used
in the Workflow after using the action.
Here, we could add a new step, output information,
where I simply output some text.
And to be precise, I will say cache used,
and then add a dynamic expression
where I reach out to my previous step
by giving this step an ID, cache steps for example,
and using steps.cache deps.outputs here.
And then the output I defined,
which in this case was used cache,
so that is what I use here.
And that will now print the output value
of this custom action step here in this step.
That's how it should work.
Now we can create a new commit, added output
and push this, and we should see
that now our output is set and used as expected.
So here for the linking step
it did now finish our custom action step,
and then in output information,
it indeed does print that output
from our own custom action step.